Rate-Tracker
Senior Full-Stack Developer - Take-home Assessment
Forbes Advisor· Data Research Engineering Team
 
48-hour window
All tools permitted
What this assessment measures
Build a small but production-shaped application that scrapes, stores, exposes and visualises interest-rate data. The domain is intentionally simple with mortgage rates, savings rates or any publicly available financial rate. The challenge is entirely in the engineering quality of what you build around it.
Think of it as the skeleton of the kind of product Marketplace ships:
data acquired → cleaned and persisted → surfaced via a typed API → rendered in a browser → refreshed automatically
What we are really evaluating
	•	Senior judgment - what you chose to build first and what you deliberately deferred
	•	Visible thinking - your assumptions, tradeoffs and decisions documented as you go
	•	Idempotency and observability - not as afterthoughts, but as first-class concerns
	•	Honest tool use - we expect you to use AI tools; we want to see you understand what they produced
Phase 1 — data acquisition & persistence (Required scope of work)
1A — Scraper / ingestion worker
Write a Python script or Django management command that reads rate data from the provided seed file and loads it into your database. A sample dataset (rates_seed.parquet, ~1,000,000 rows) is included in the repo — your ingestion worker must be able to load it via:
    python manage.py seed_data
The file is in Snappy-compressed Parquet format. Loading strategy and library choice are part of the assessment.
The data model must capture at minimum: provider name, rate type, rate value, effective date, ingestion timestamp.
 
	•	Handle HTTP errors, timeout and partial responses - don't let the worker crash silently
	•	Store raw responses alongside cleaned records so failed parses can be replayed
	•	Write at least one pytest test that mocks the HTTP call and asserts the parsed output matches a known fixture 
1B — Database design
Use PostgreSQL (or MySQL). Design a schema that answers the following queries efficiently and briefly explain your choices in schema.md:
 
	•	Latest rate per provider
	•	Rate change over the last 30 days for a given type
	•	All records ingested in a given 24-hour window
 
Deliverables:
	•	Django migration files — no raw SQL dumps
	•	A schema.md explaining each table, its indexes and tradeoffs considered
1C — Scheduled execution
Wire the ingestion worker to run on a schedule. You may use Celery, a Django management command via cron, or an AWS-native scheduler - your choice, but justify it in DECISIONS.md. The scheduler must run locally via docker-compose up.
Phase 2 — API layer (Required scope of work)
2A — Django REST API - three endpoints
You own the URL structure, response shape, and HTTP semantics. Document every significant decision in DECISIONS.md.
GET /rates/latest
Return the most recent rate per provider, with optional ?type= filter. Responses must be cached (Redis or Django cache framework). Document the cache invalidation strategy.
GET /rates/history
Paginated time-series for a provider + type combination. Support ?from= and ?to= date filters. Do not return unbounded result sets.
POST /rates/ingest
An authenticated webhook endpoint. Accepts JSON matching your data model, validates strictly, writes to the DB, and invalidates the relevant cache keys. Return structured errors — not 500s. 
2B — Authentication & permissions
The ingest endpoint must require a bearer token. Read/GET endpoints work without auth. Implement using DRF's authentication classes and no external auth service needed.
2C — API tests
Write integration tests using DRF's test client or pytest-django 

Phase 3 — Frontend (optional bonus)
3A — NextJS dashboard
If you attempt the frontend, it must connect to your real API. A static mock or hardcoded data does not count. It must include:
	•	A rate comparison table — latest rate per provider, sortable by rate value and last-updated date
	•	A line chart showing 30-day history for a user-selected provider + type (any charting library)
	•	Auto-refresh every 60 seconds — without a full page reload
	•	A visible loading state and error state for every data fetch — not just a spinner
	•	Responsive layout — usable on a 375px-wide viewport 
Phase 4 — infrastructure & operations
4A — Docker Compose setup (required)
The entire stack — Django, PostgreSQL, Redis, Celery worker, and NextJS if applicable — must start with a single docker-compose up. Include a Makefile or scripts/ folder with commands to seed the DB, run all tests, and tail logs.
4B — Environment & secrets discipline (required)
No secrets in the repository. Use .env.example with placeholder values and document every required variable. The app must fail fast with a clear error message if a required env var is missing — not a cryptic crash 10 minutes later.
 
4C — Observability stub (optional bonus)
 
Add structured logging to the ingestion worker and API — at minimum: ingestion job start/end/error, and a warning for any query over 200ms. Use Python's standard logging module with a JSON formatter. No print statements.

